---
title: Introduction
description: ...
---

# 


I am Noufal Ibrahim. I'm from Kerala, India and have been involved
with Python as a user since 1999 and have been involved more heavily
with the community since 2006 or so. 


# Contributions to the Community


I was in Bangalore, India when I started to get heavily involved with
the Python community. I was able to organise and lead the python
developers in Bangalore to conduct the first PyCon in India in [2009](https://in.pycon.org/2009). 
(for which I received a community service award in that year). Since
then, PyCon India has grown to be one of the largest PyCons in the
world and we're still going strong. I keynoted the [event in 2017](https://in.pycon.org/2017/#speakers).


This has made me a notable figure in the Indian Python ecosystem.


As a minor point, I created a set of slides by hand which were donated
to PyLadies and [auctioned
off](https://twitter.com/pyladies/status/995466266042359808) at the
next edition of PyCon in the US


On the technical side, I've been contributing several small patches to
various projects and some large ones. I've also been very active on
Stack Overflow and other fora where I've answered queries on several
topics. I've conducted many workshops at community events, for college
students at their schools and for corporate audiences at companies on
various Python related topics. 


# Current work


I have a natural inclination towards teaching and I've been doing that
in a personal and professional capacity for a long time and I've been
increasing my outreach to young students who are looking to join the
software workforce. Most of my teaching has been done using Python as
the language and I've enjoyed good success in this regard. 


# Aims as a director


I'm primarily an educator and outreach person.


My recent (since 2016 or so) work has been heavily oriented on
mentoring students and freshers and while the PSFs and local
communities initiatives have made a huge difference in outreach,
they've still mostly reached people like me (English educated, exposed
to technology at a young age etc.).


I was doing a series of workshops at various local colleges (in
Kerala, India) and found the need for reaching out to talented
students who have language barriers or a general lack of confidence to
get into the community.


I've been making some inroads in that direction (till the covid
situation derailed my plans). However, I'd like to become a director
and use the PSFs name and resources to reach out to this segment of
people.


My current plans on implementing this


1. I would like to, in association with the universities and the PSF,
 create an open syllabus for education that colleges and other
 institutions can use. This will allow educators to deliver decent
 quality classes (along with exercises) and perhaps write books and
 other content that will help students.
2. Create something like an internship program which students can
 participate in and be awarded some kind of recognition for their
 efforts so as to increase interest in Python and the larger
 ecosystem. I have several connections with the technical
 universities in Kerala which can help in this regard.
3. I'd like to create bridges using the PSFs name and reputation to
 reach out to students that have a less privileged background than
 my own so that they can easily become members of the larger
 community in various capacities.


